my name is Julia kajinski I just stepped
down from my position as the founding
director of new Inc so I'm looking for a
new way to introduce myself searching
for a new identity for those of you who
may not be familiar a new ink is the new
museum's incubator for art design and
technology the program which we launched
in 2014 was designed to help creative
practitioners and entrepreneurs launch
and grow artistic projects and
businesses new Inc offers mentorship
guidance skill development and a shared
workspace but perhaps most importantly
it provides a supportive community
during what can often be very isolating
and challenging period each year we
convene a diverse in a disciplinary
cohort of like-minded peers who are
experimenting with new forms of practice
and searching for a sustainable ethical
business model that can support that
work which is not easy to come by and I
want to just start off with a few of my
favorite projects from the past four
years depth kit which was mentioned by
Theo in his presentation didn't actually
originate at new ink but the founders
James George and Alexander Porter they
created this form of volumetric
filmmaking volumetric image capture and
released it open source and they were
using it for their own art projects when
they got to new ink they were kind of in
the midst of their own identity crisis
where this tool had really found a huge
audience online had a lot of demand for
a more professional grade version of the
tool meanwhile James and Alexander were
creating their own artistic projects
such as clouds'
which is a generative documentary about
Creative Technology but you know they
were really kind of conflicted with
whether they should grow the tool and
really you know think of themselves as
entrepreneurs or continue with this role
of artists and they kind of found a way
to do both with this company scattered
that they established so scattered
functions as a studio which allows them
to continue making their own creative
work but they also did
to end up raising venture capital for
death kit and so they are in the process
of building and as a more robust tool
for the creative community which is
really exciting
and today's scattered continues to
produce award-winning VR documentaries
and experimental projects that used the
volumetric filmmaking tool for VR and AR
and other immersive media and I just
learned this morning that their latest
project zero days which was directed by
Yasmine Ali OTT was nominated for an
Emmy which is super exciting over the
years we've seen a number of immersive
storytelling studios coming out of new
ink another really great one is called a
new reality CO it's founded by Winslow
Porter and Melissa Zak and they too have
been creating VR storytelling projects
that tackle important issues this one is
looking at climate change and it allows
you to experience the life birth and
death of a tree as the actual tree and
it you know was created in partnership
with the rain forest Alliance and has
similarly toured the world after
premiering at Sundance and Tribeca we've
also worked with artists in a more kind
of traditional fine artists sense
Stephanie Dinkins is the artist pictured
here she's been investigating artificial
intelligence and bias and is working
with communities of color to explore how
AI intersects race gender aging and
future histories she began this work
with a project called conversations with
bina48 which is pictured here bina48 as
some of you guys might know is a social
robot that is touted as one of the most
advanced a eyes and presents as a black
woman in this case it's modeled on the
memories and personality of a real
person bina Rothblatt and when Stephanie
first encountered this robot you know
she really wanted to understand she
wanted to ask her a central question
which is who are you people
and this kind of led to try and
understand who's behind the algorithms
that power these projects and also to
teach us sort of kind of AI awareness or
AI and literacy to communities of color
who are often disproportionately
affected by these technologies but not
really a part of
shaping them and creating them and her
work is now being supported by IBM and
Sundance and Pioneer works and
foundations like the Soros foundation
and she's also part of an artist
residency that new ink runs with Nokia
Bell Labs
so again intersecting with Theo's
presentation and another project that
I'm really in love with is the work of
dancer choreographer and disability
activist Alice Shepard she's been
developing a multimedia dance
performance called descent which is
pictured here which uses a custom-built
wheelchair ramp which is an open source
project and at newing she launched a
dance studio called kinetic light that
works with other disability artists and
she's been developing a mobile app which
is an attempt to create new forms of
accessibility for visually impaired
audiences who might be attending dance
performances or other forms of
performance and I'm really excited to
share that she was just featured on the
cover of Dance Magazine this month which
is a really kind of historic moment for
the field and the last project that I'll
share is a company called micro which is
a social enterprise that's building a
fleet of miniature six-foot-tall science
museums designed to teach people about
essential scientific concepts such as
evolutionary biology and their goal is
to decentralize museums and make them
more accessible by bringing them to
communities they place their tiny
museums in public places this one's in a
library as you can see where people are
already gathering some of them are in
hospital waiting rooms like the Bellevue
Hospital in New York schools and other
kind of public places like the DMV and
corporate lobbies and things like that
and as you can see these projects look
quite different from the type of
incubators that you guys might have here
in San Francisco and the reason is that
our goal with new Inc was to really
reimagine the incubator model as one
that optimizes for cultural value not
just capital value and that's one of the
reasons why we deliberately chose the
word incubator as a descriptor for the
program we wanted to interface with this
commune
with this tech community and present a
different take on what an incubator
could be when rooted in a cultural
context much like gray area has done
here in San Francisco with their own
artist incubator and the focus is really
on building capacity and giving create
as the tools to organize fundraise and
create a sustainable livelihood for
themselves and in support of their work
over the past four years new Inc has
supported hundreds of artists nonprofits
social enterprises studios and startups
and getting their practice off the
ground raising money growing their teams
and cultivating business savvy which is
all to say that I kind of spent a lot of
the last five years thinking about art
and money and the complex and fraught
relationship between the two which is
one of the reasons why I was ready for a
change of scenery
but anyway I don't think it's news to
anyone to say that you know the labor
economics of the art market are broken
Ruth's also alluded to this in her
presentation and if you're someone who's
working in time-based media performance
art or social practice good luck I mean
making a living from your work becomes
near impossible when your work is
immaterial ephemeral and infinitely
reproducible meanwhile art continues to
become ever further entrenched as the
asset class de rigueur of the world's
uber-rich but artists are struggling to
stay afloat in the increasingly
precarious gig economy where they
predominantly toil of course artists
aren't the only ones affected by the
growing trend of replacing stable
salaried jobs the kind that used to come
with 401ks and health insurance with
on-demand contract labor that offers
none of these benefits and protections
to the worker and this in turn only
contributes to mounting income
inequality those of what of us who went
to art school likely didn't receive much
of an education in the business side of
creative practice and as a results many
of us can feel woefully equipped to
navigate the demands
the freelance job market so at new Inc
our aims to really help creatives become
better informed about how business works
so that they can more definitely
navigate its power structures the goal
is to help creatives recognize and own
their value leverage the potential of
their unique skills and intellectual
property and learn how to build organize
and lead teens and these are fundamental
skills that I believe are transferable
it doesn't matter whether you're
building an interactive installation a
start-up or a non-profit but that the
end result is hopefully giving the
artists a little bit more power over
their work and and the direction that
their work takes and the relationships
that they broker with their funders and
supporters so for me the fundamental
question in starting newing was this you
know can we demystify business thinking
in order to explore new ways of moving
within its systems of logic conceptual
artists have been doing this for years
looking for ways to exploit hijack hack
or otherwise subvert dominant power
structures groups like our displacement
group founded in London in 1966 by
Barbara Savini and Jonathan Lethem
wanted to change the status of artists
and broaden their activities so an
artist could make a more direct
contribution to society the group
brokered positions for artists and
commercial industrial and government
offices they place artists and
organizations such as the British steel
corporation ocean fleets Limited the
Department of Environment and the
Department for Health and Social
Security I was interesting for me as the
group's founders really kind of adopted
the language of Management and the guise
of bureaucracy in order to broker the
artist placement and negotiate contracts
between the artists and the host
organizations and also to secure funds
and payment for APG itself which were
used of course to cover the
administrative costs and overhead of the
operation other projects like this
contract from art dealer SFC club called
the artists reserved rights transfer and
sale agreement also know
is the artist contract it's an
open-source contract that attempted to
protect the rights and interests of
artists as their work circulates within
the art world system so it's stipulated
that 15% royalty would be owed to the
artist on the difference of the resale
price of an artwork so when it goes to
auction and you know it sells for like
10 times what the artist sold it for the
artist gets a cut of that which is a lot
of what we're seeing being discussed in
some of the blockchain applications of
you know the payment of artists and the
sell artists work while this contract
did not become standard use and in fact
a recent US appeals court ruling struck
down California's resale royalties Act
which is the only state in the u.s. to
attempt to enforce such a policy Seigle
Ava's contract is in use by such
renowned artists as Adrian Piper and
Hans Hawk so much of this work is of
course rooted in the tradition of
institutional critique an art practice
that blossomed out of the intellectual
milieu in the 1960s and 70s but it's
still very much alive today while the
original generation was focused on
exposing the inner workings of art
institutions today's artists are
chuckling commercial corporate and
political systems more broadly groups
like the Danish collective Superflex
founded in 1993 develop alternative
models for the creation dissemination
and maintenance of social and economic
capital their projects typically take
the form of toolkits and methodologies
that invite people to participate in
experimental models aiming to expose and
alter the forces behind economic
production a great example of this is
guarana power which the artist developed
a soft drink together with a Quran of
farmers cooperative in MAOIs in the
Brazilian Amazon and the project is a
response to the community's economic
struggle after a corporate monopoly on
the purchase of guarana seeds drove down
the plants value by 80 percent while
simultaneously the cost of the
consumer-facing product increased and so
Superflex stated that their intentions
with this project was to use global
brands and there
strategies as raw material for a counter
economic position and what's interesting
to me is not only does the project
render these economics truck structures
visible but it also functions as a
consumer brand and attempts to offer a
viable alternative
more recently New York City based
artists like Carolyn Bullard have taken
up the challenge of building equitable
systems that privilege communal
well-being over personal gain
rulers projects are many and they're
great I encourage you to check out her
work
they include projects like the study
center for group work which is an
in-person network of people who meet to
refine collaborative methods the New
York City real estate investment
cooperative which uses traditional
investment strategies to invest in
community rather than corporate
development our goods org which is an
online platform for bartering skills
spaces and objects and the exchange cafe
where visitors to MoMA could acquire tea
milk and honey through non-monetary
means of exchange Willard is also one of
the cofounders of BFA and thus a PhD
which is a research collective that
produces reports on the state of art
education and develops new teaching
tools that bring people together to
analyze and reimagine power
relationships in the arts and artists
have been you know building alternative
educational institutions since at least
the 1920s with the Bauhaus contemporary
artists run schools like public school
bhq fu and the black school offer
alternatives to prevailing pedagogical
approaches in order to both challenge
and update previously accepted theories
practices and methodologies and this
seems to be a growing trend at the
recent alternative arts school fair at
pioneer works in Brooklyn nearly 50
alternative arts schools from around the
u.s. and the world came together to
share experiences and resources another
interesting development in this space is
the rise of artists formed institutions
that behave as both lobbying groups and
art projects this includes groups like
working artists and the greater economy
wage golf labor and Hank Willis Thomas
is super PAC for freedoms which is
pictured here
and I think these artists led
enterprises are incredibly inspiring you
know they're seeking to transform
communities in ways large and small but
you know I have to wonder to what extent
they're actually effective at
challenging and dismantling these power
structures or whether they just kind of
make them visible right because
essentially they're still holdin to a
lot of these sources of power namely
funding that exists in our capitalist
society right so when you're still
trying to get funding from wealthy
patrons it tends to complicate your
ideological position somewhat and of
course you know this this is the crux of
some of my internal struggles during my
time at new Inc is that you know no
matter how you try to intervene there's
a only a limited number of ways to
access capital and each of them kind of
comes with their own set of compromises
and trade-offs and I haven't found a way
around these yet if you have an answer
please come find me I'm dying to hear
from you
which is why you know at new Inc our
goal is to really help creatives
understand their own values principles
and definitions of success in order to
help them devise a business strategy
that makes sense for their unique goals
and ways of working and their priorities
and the change that they were trying to
create
we can't bypass the need for capital
currently but we can decide how we
choose to work who we work with how we
structure those relationships and the
impact our work has on our environment
in our society obviously this is no
longer just about art or creative
enterprises this applies to business in
general and as part of a larger
counter-narrative that needs to
challenge the mythology of startup
culture in corporate America I believe
there's real potential to create viable
alternatives to the greed mongering that
dominates our understanding of business
today with the adoption of viable
business structures that put social
responsibility at the center of their
operation today we see a growing trend
towards social enterprise
businesses that have a double or triple
bottom line and attempt to balance
mission driven activities with
sustainable business practices new legal
structures like benefit corporations and
certified be corpse require companies to
uphold and meet a set of ethical
standards outlined in their impact
assessment and they look at everything
from environmental impact to the
treatment of workers and since these
standards are written into their
corporate charter and become a part of
the organization's legal bylaws they are
powerful tools for protecting the
integrity of a mission-driven business
even as future stakeholders may try to
influence its direction down the line
today there is more than 40,000
certified B corpse in the US including
at C Patagonia Kickstarter and some of
the ones on here but an even more
promising business structure is not a
new idea at all
it's the worker owned cooperative which
of course rose to prominence alongside
the labor movement and the Industrial
Revolution worker coops are employee
owned small businesses that operate
under their principles of shared
ownership and shared governance although
they are proven to be more resilient
during economic downturns than their
corporate counterparts and typically see
higher productivity levels and much
lower rates of employee turnover the
Democrat and democracy at work Institute
a nonprofit that supports the
development of worker coops estimates
that there are just 300 worker coops in
the United States new school professor
at charter schools along with other
prominent peer to peer theorists such as
michael michelle bounds and updated the
worker coop model for the digital age
with the concept of platform
cooperativism created in response to the
extractive nature of the so-called
sharing economy the platform coop is a
cooperatively owned democratically
governed business that establishes a
computing platform and uses a protocol
website or mobile app to facilitate the
sale of goods and services the concept
is part of a larger peer to peer
production movement that aims to
challenge corporate power through
digital disintermediation dozens of
platform coops already exist today
and offer services such as ride-hailing
alternatives to uber of course music
streaming and marketplaces for ethically
sourced goods which brings me to the
theme of this year's festival the
blockchain
I am by no means an expert in the
blockchain I took a deep dive in it
because I wanted to learn more and this
talk kind of created a great opportunity
to do so and I really have to shout out
Ruth and further fields excellent book
artists rethinking the blockchain it's
an awesome primer on some theory and
great ideas coming out of the art space
but yeah I'm trying to understand it
explore its edges and potential
applications and I've been particularly
intrigued by the promise of
decentralized autonomous organizations
or dows so first what is a Dao and I
apologize if I watch this description
because I am NOT an expert look it up
but here's my attempt and so Adelle
leverages the blockchain smart contracts
feature which are otherwise known as
self executing contracts essentially
these contracts take the form of
computer code stored on the blockchain
that stipulate the rules of an agreement
like legal agreement and these rules are
then stored replicated and supervised by
the network of computers running the
blockchain with a Dow the bylaws of the
organization are embedded into the code
of the smart contract and certain
decisions like the payment of dividends
to shareholders can be automated
while tokens can be used for shareholder
voting to solve more complex issues of
governance such as choosing one service
provider over another or how money gets
spent essentially on the one hand dows
seem ready-made to usher in a golden age
of platform co-ops and potentially to
help govern regular coops as well the
block chains distributed public ledger
allows for greater security and
transparency and therefore trust in the
organization's activities this
transparency allows the organization to
maintain trust even as the organization
scales beyond the scale of human
relationships and human trust it also
avoids having decision makers and
positions of power making decisions on
half of the collective which may or may
not be in line with the best interests
of the collective but dows and smart
contracts are far from perfect for one
thing the block chains and mutability
doesn't allow for mistakes or changing
your mind which is a bit of a problem
and fixing a bug or changing a policy
isn't as simple as pushing an update but
rather require forking the whole system
as we saw with the Dow
not to be confused with Dow's in general
which took me a minute which was an
organization established in 2016 on the
theory and blockchain this can lead to
fragmentation and entrenchment only one
month after its Assumption inception the
Dow suffered a hack that exploited some
vulnerabilities in its code siphoning
off some 50 million dollars worth of
tokens and after much deliberation the
etherium community decided to fork its
code and return the funds to their
original owners
however purists who believe the attack
was legitimate although unethical were
upset with a theory m4 the fork and have
continued to use the original ethereum
blockchain renamed aetherium classic the
other potential pitfall of dows or
automated systems in general is that
they are designed to follow a set of
immutable instructions ad infinitum and
to optimize for the implicit values
inherent in those instructions similar
to Nick Bostrom's paperclip Maximizer
thought experiment in which an AI whose
goal is to maximize the number of paper
clips in its collection can destroy
humanity even without a malicious intent
I think the paper clip example of course
is a bit absurd but one could imagine
how a dao like tera zero sorry max a
cell phone a i forest designed to
propagate in order to provide automated
resilience systems for ecosystems could
in an effort to convert all the world's
land mass into forests potentially wipe
out humanity I don't know maybe maybe
not max assures me this is not possible
something created with only the best of
intentions
taken to its natural conclusion to this
kind of absolute extreme without proper
contingencies put in place at the outset
could inadvertently produce a less than
desirable result which is one of the
reasons why I think it's crucial for
artists to be active in this space right
now we need to continue to design
thought experiments and potential
applications for the blockchain that put
care for people animals and natural
resources and at the central at the
center of these systems and despite the
challenges and complications of the
blockchain and I'm sure I'm only
scratching the surface here but if it
really is this new Internet as so many
are touting it to be perhaps it offers
an opportunity to redesign and reprogram
our society with a different set of
rules but who gets to decide what those
rules are and how similar or different
they'll be to our current reality is
kind of what's at stake right now so I
want to end with the words of poet
Audrey Lord where she says masters tools
will never dismantle the Masters house
I've been a little bit frustrated over
the past five years with this kind of
ineffectual resistance of the forces
that be and I am kind of intrigued about
the potential to build new tools and
perhaps the blockchain offers an
opportunity to do so I don't know and
that's kind of why I'm here and I would
love to talk to you all about that
so thanks
[Applause]
[Music]